# Information AI Agent Assistant

A sophisticated **AI agent** designed as an information assistant-- using advanced AI model endpoints such as OpenAI's GPT-4o or Anthropic's Claude Sonnet models, integrated via the Langchain framework, and with a structured prompt-design strategy to process user queries. 

Responses are dynamically generated by parsing and structuring outputs through a predefined schema, ensuring that users consistently receive clear, and concise information.

## Setup

1. **Clone Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone <repo-url>
   cd AgenticAI
   ```

2. **Create Virtual Environment**
    ```bash
    conda create -n YOUR_ENV python=3.11 -y
    conda activate YOUR_ENV
    ```


3. **Install Dependencies**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. **Set Up Environment Variables**

   Create a `.env` file in your project directory with the necessary API keys. Check out the respective webpages for generating API keys. Place them in `.env` like so:

   ```text
   OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key"
   ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-anthropic-api-key" # if using Anthropic models
   ```

   **Ensure:**  `.env` remains private and secure. Never commit your API keys to version control.

## Project Workflow

* The main entry point is `main.py`. It initializes the agent with LangChain's Chat Models.
* The agent utilizes custom tools defined in `tools.py`:

  * **DuckDuckGo Search:** Queries the web for general information.
  * **Wikipedia Tool:** Retrieves concise summaries from Wikipedia.
  * **Save Tool:** Stores structured research output in a timestamped text file (`research_output.txt`).

## Usage

Run the agent:

```bash
python main.py
```

Follow the interactive prompt to perform search queries. You may choose to save the file by passing a second `str` argument.

## Saving Output to a File

While entering your query in the prompt, you can optionally specify to save the generated response directly to an output file. Provide your query, and then mention the keyword'save' in any capacity followed by a comma.

**Example:**

```bash
What can i help you with? What is the capital of Ghana?, save to file
```

## Final Output

The structured output follows this schema:

```text
--- Research Output ---
Timestamp: YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS

Topic: <Your topic>
Summary:
<Generated summary>
```

The resources and the tools that were used for the response are referenced in bash towards the end of the answer.

<!-- ## Best Practices

* Regularly review and clean the `research_output.txt` file.
* Verify the accuracy of AI-generated content, especially for critical research tasks. -->

---
<!-- 
© 2025 AgenticAI Project -->
